.. 
 Copyright (c) 2017 Jun Ebihara All rights reserved.
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Japan NetBSD Users Group 17th annual Meeting and BoF 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held 18th annual Meeting 
  on Jul. 9 2016:

::

 http://www.jp.netbsd.org/ja/JP/JNUG/announce/meeting18.html.en
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1012439098842302/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/

NetBSD BOF:
  http://www.jp.netbsd.org/ja/JP/JNUG/event/20160709BOF/

::

 14:00- 
   - Makoto Fujiwara: pkgsrc freshness
     http://www.ki.nu/~makoto/pkgsrc/check-update
   - Tamotsu Kanoh: IoT on NetBSD
     ftp://ftp.kanoh.org/pub/NetBSD/kanoh/
   - Ryo ONODERA: pkgsrc issue for myself
   - Masaru OKI:  Do You Know Whitebox Switch?
     Cubieboard2 / Open Web Board /Zodiac FX / RPI0 
 15:30-
   - Rin Okuyama: Endian independent disklabel support for NetBSD
     kern/51208
   - Ryo Shimizu: Twitter bot reports snapshot build result
     @netbsd_builder show profile
   - Jun Ebihara: RPI Image Update 2015-2016
     https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/Guide/RPI/RPIupdate2016.rst
   - Masanobu SAITOH: NetBSD 2016
     http://www.netbsd.org/gallery/presentations/msaitoh/2016_BSDCan/BSDCan2016-NetBSD.pdf
   - Hiroshi Tokuda: Machines on AsiaBSDCon 
     LINKIT SMART 7688 DUO / Omega
 17:00
   - SODA Noriyuki: Toward NetBSD 8.0
   - Masanobu SAITOH: Current status of NetBSD MP-safe network stack project
   
 18:30
   　post meeting party: 
   　  https://www.facebook.com/12souko/

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/JNUG2016.pdf

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/997708

Video Archive:
 http://www.ustream.tv/channel/japan-netbsd-users-group-meeting

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Kyoto
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group and  Kansai *BSD Users' Group 
members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Kyoto on Jul. 29-30 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-kyoto/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1062729970410808/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

NetBSD/luna68k 7.0.1 by tsutsui@
- https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/osc2016-kyoto-psg-tunes-on-netbsd-luna68k
- LUNA has Z80 sub-processor and YM2149 sound chip
- porting PSG Z80 sound driver for PC6001 to NetBSD/luna68k
  LUNA PSG support code http://twitter.com/tsutsuii/status/759793635898515456 
- play PC6001 music data on LUNA

NEC PC6001+PC6082 DataRecorder by tsutsui@
- play PC6001 music data

RetroBSD & LiteBSD by Takeshi Mutoh
- http://qml.610t.org/FreeBSD/OSC2016Kyoto_JNUG.html
- https://github.com/610t/kbug/blob/226d695792503635b6e35c5fb107f95cbbcad17e/demo/network.png
- LiteBSD at chipKIT Wi-FIRE 4.4BSD PIC32MZ
- RetroBSD at PIC32-RetroBSD 2.11BSD PIC32MX
- FreeBSD at Raspberry Pi B FreeBSD LCD loadavg 
- NetBSD at Banana Pi NetBSD7
- RaspBSD at BeagleBone Black FreeBSD11 LED loadavg USB Ether 
- NetBSD at Raspberry Pi 2B NetBSD 7 LanAP distcc 
- NetBSD at Raspberry Pi 0 NetBSD7 GPIO LED loadavg

Astronomical instruments control by NAKAMURA Kazushi
- ASCOM project
  http://www.ascom-standards.org/
- INDI project
  http://www.indilib.org/

Others by Jun Ebihara
- Raspberry Pi 0/1/2/3
-  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/07/27/msg003884.html

::

  RPI0: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI0
  RPI : https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI
  RPI2: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI2
  RPI3: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI3

- Sharp Netwalker NetBSD/earmv7hf
  NetBSD 7.99.21
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv7hf/NETWALKER
- Sharp ZAURUS NetBSD/zaurus
  -current boot failed.
  NetBSD 6.99.29
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/zaurus/SL-C1000
- Sharp WZero3
  NetBSD 7.99.30
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/hpcarm/WS011SH
- NEC SigmarionII
  NetBSD 7.99.33 201607080210Z works well, 7.99.34 boot failed.
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/hpcmips/sigmarion2

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016kyoto.pdf

KBUG Flyer
 http://sacraya.610t.org/kbug/flyer/flyer-OSC2016Kyoto.pdf

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1005828

NetBSD workshop at SecurityCamp 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I make a NetBSD workshop 4 hours timeslot in SecurityCamp 2016.
Aug. 10 2016 13:30-17:30 ,Makuhari , Chiba, Japan:

::

 http://www.slideshare.net/junebihara18/netbsdworkshop
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/SecCamp2016.pdf
 https://www.ipa.go.jp/jinzai/camp/2016/zenkoku2016_jikanwari.html
 https://www.facebook.com/events/979623888786680/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

1. SEGA DreamCast demonstration
- Phantasy Star Online as GameConsole
- NetBSD 1.6A 2002 NBUG Demo CD-R 
- NetBSD 7.0.1 2016 with dcserv & dcburn
  http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/arch/dreamcast/dcburn/
  http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/arch/dreamcast/dcserv/

2. Show Hardwares - we all live in a one source tree.
- hpcmips: IBM Z50,NEC MobileGear MC700,Sigmarion I/II
- hpcarm: HP Jornada 720,WZERO3
- hpcsh:  HP Jornada 690
- zaurus: SL700/1000
- dreamcast
- RPI and more
   RPI0/1/2/3 & CubieBoard2 & BananaPi & 4CPU
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/tree/master/dmesg

3. Install NetBSD/i386 7.0.1 on VirtualBox 
- Windows 10 on HP Probook 450 
-- XXX try to boot up with UEFI USB install media.
   http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/misc/nonaka/tmp/uefi/
-- XXX I'm lost in BIOS menu tree, so can't find 
   how to boot via USB Stick in 5min.

- Step by Step install NetBSD7.0.1 on VirtualBox
-- and boot NetBSD 

4. Extract NetBSD-current src.tar.gz
- cd /usr
- tar xzvf src.tar.gz

5. Build Cross Compiling toolchain
- ./build.sh -j 6 -u -U -m evbarm -a earmv6hf tools

6. Install NetBSD/earmv6hf on RPI
- RPI image for OSC2016kyoto
  http://cdn.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/misc/jun/raspberry-pi/2016-07-29-earmv6hf/
- Use rawrite32.exe to write microSD Card.
  https://www.netbsd.org/~martin/rawrite32/download.html
- boot
- resize partition: wait 21min for fit 16GB sdcard.
-- I should use 8GB or 4GB card instead.

- Raspberry Pi 0/1/2/3
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/07/27/msg003884.html

::

  RPI0: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI0
  RPI : https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI
  RPI2: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI2
  RPI3: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI3

7. Build RPI kernel on NetBSD/i386
- ./build.sh -j 6 -u -U -m evbarm -a earmv6hf kernel=RPI

8. Play RPI as you are
- startx
- mikutter
--  mikutter start failed!

know your rights:
Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Pax
  http://www.netbsd.org/gallery/presentations/msaitoh/2016_BSDCan/BSDCan2016-NetBSD.pdf

9. Play again
- mikutter
cf.
 https://twitter.com/akkkix/status/763285526124257280
 https://twitter.com/akkkix/status/763285339372826624
 https://twitter.com/taiyoslime/status/763283213137477633
 https://twitter.com/K_atc/status/763280659993407488

10. Copy own-build kernel to RPI
- netbsd.bin to /boot/kernel.img and boot
- with a little luck,-current kernel boot with no problem!

11. (Optional) add one line kernel option for RPI3
- http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/06/16/msg003830.html
- ./build.sh -j 6 -u -U -m evbarm -a earmv6hf kernel=RPI2
- cp netbsd.bin /boot/kernel7.img
 
Time UP!

Thanx for all 11 participants younger than dreamcast,
and supported great tutor @K_atc,
   https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/763292302093619200
and Toshifumi Nishinaga (http://tatsu-zine.com/books/raspi-bm).

NetBSD machines at Open Source UnConference 2016 Kanazawa
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth 
at the Open Source UnConference 2016 Kanazawa on Aug. 27 2016:

::

 http://connpass.com/event/30813/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1120439247976109
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/

- Raspberry Pi 0/1/2/3
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/08/23/msg003918.html

::

  RPI0: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI0
  RPI : https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI
  RPI2: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI2
  RPI3: https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv6hf/RPI3

- Sharp Netwalker NetBSD/earmv7hf
  NetBSD 7.99.21
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/earmv7hf/NETWALKER
- Sharp WZero3
  NetBSD 7.99.30
  https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/hpcarm/WS011SH

- routerboard hAP lite by  @den_debiantokyo
-- https://routerboard.com/RB941-2nD-TC
-- how can I boot NetBSD?

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSuC2016kanazawa.pdf

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1017308

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Shimane
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Shimane on Sep.24 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-shimane/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1719665944982026/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016shimane.pdf

Booth:
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779514521958293505

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:

SONY NEWS NWS-5000SB NetBSD/newsmips 
 https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/newsmips/NEWS5000
 7.99.32 boot.
 7.99.38 boot failed.

NEC PC-9821Nb7/5 NetBSD/pc98 1.4.3 by @shimadah
 https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/pc98/GENERIC

Raspberry PI running SunView+JLE,OpenWindows and NeWS with tme by Mochida.
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779514988880809984
 
XM6i on MacOSX by isaki@
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779514521958293505

Raspberry PI3 running NetBSD/x68k with XM6i emulator.
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779506768707629056

Raspberry PI with omxplayer and Xfce4
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779514303137263616

Sharp Netwalker 
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/779515340220801024

many thanx to Hiroyuki Nakaji,Shuji Mochida,https://opencocon.org/

Demo Images:
 RPI:
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/09/22/msg003920.html

 XM6i
  http://xm6i.org/download.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  http://togetter.com/li/1028314

OpenBSD and NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Nagaoka
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group and 
Echigo BSD Users Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Nagaoka on Oct.1 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-nagaoka/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/894132747364440/
 http://www.ebug.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Fuguita: OpenBSD LiveCD by Yoshihiro Kawamata
   http://fuguita.org/?FuguIta
   http://fuguita.org/index.php?%B2%CF%C6%DA%C8%C4

 Fuguita-6.0: based on OpenBSD 6.0
   http://fuguita.org/index.php?LiveCD%2F6.0

Echigo BSD Users Group, since Nov.2001
   http://www.ebug.jp/
   http://p.twipple.jp/nPXeW

 stellarium on OpenBSD by Yoshihiro Kawamata
     http://p.twipple.jp/Wsu4D
     
Echigo BSD Users Group activities:

 OpenBSD wiki:
  http://fuguita.org/

 Scale httpd on OpenBSD:
   http://fuguita.org/index.php?EBUG%CA%D9%B6%AF%B2%F1%2F20141115_httpd%A4%F2%A5%B9%A5%B1%A1%BC%A5%EB%A4%B5%A4%BB%A4%EB

 CARP and OpenBSD Web/MailingList Server:
 http://fuguita.org/index.php?EBUG%CA%D9%B6%AF%B2%F1%2F20110903_%A5%ED%A1%BC%A5%C9%A5%D0%A5%E9%A5%F3%A5%B5%A4%CA%A4%B7%A4%C7%C9%E9%B2%D9%CA%AC%BB%B6%A4%B7%A4%C6%A4%DF%A4%BF

NetBSD Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/pOzt3

XM6i: NetBSD/x68k on X68030 emulators
   http://xm6i.org/ 
   XM6i (NetBSD/x68k) on RPI3 (NetBSD/earmv6hf) 
   http://p.twipple.jp/ccOMY

Raspberry PI2 plays omxplayer (NetBSD/earmv6hf)
   http://p.twipple.jp/R1LNs

Raspberry PI Zero and mikutter (NetBSD/earmv6hf)
   http://p.twipple.jp/FCks7  

SHARP NetWalker (NetBSD/earmv7hf) Xfce4.12+xnp21 PC9801emulator
  http://p.twipple.jp/S9U6x

SHARP WZERO3 ades (NetBSD/hpcarm)
  http://p.twipple.jp/tzGKA
 
NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016nagaoka.pdf

Demo Images:
 Fuguita: OpenBSD LiveCD
   http://fuguita.org/?FuguIta
 RPI:
   http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/09/29/msg003921.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  http://togetter.com/li/1031383

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Tokyo/Fall
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Tokyo/Fall on Nov. 5-6 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-fall/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/606794986162192/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

BSD BOF Presentation: 

@yamori813
ZRouter: 
 http://qiita.com/yamori813/items/2fc5b14648029bb4730f

@s_mitu
RaspberryPI on FreeBSD:
 https://github.com/s-mitu/RaspberryPi/blob/master/FreeBSD/Documents/FreeBSD_OSC.md
 http://p.twipple.jp/VIkZl
 http://p.twipple.jp/wOZzC

tsutsui@
NetBSD/dreamcast IDE HDD strikes back
 https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/osc2016-tokyo-fall-netbsd-dreamcast-ide-hdd

CBUG Meeting:
 http://www.cbug.bug.gr.jp/event/20161105/index.html
 Send Happy birthday greetings to Warner Losh.
  https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/796144585734897664

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/ZDaWS

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016tokyofall.pdf

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:

SEGA DreamCast with CF and SD expansion  
 NetBSD Dreamcast 7.0 G1IDE+SCI SDMMC mplayer demo 
 http://p.twipple.jp/O3lWT

RPI2 Ver1.2+XM6i+NetBSD/x68k:
 http://p.twipple.jp/8YfuA

RPI2+omxplayer:
 http://p.twipple.jp/g3ApQ

NetWalker:
 http://p.twipple.jp/1xxU7

WZERO3:
 http://p.twipple.jp/4KzUX

BSD Cookies:
 http://p.twipple.jp/2Brum
 http://p.twipple.jp/I3UYF

Demo Images:
 RPI:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/11/02/msg003954.html

Donation:
 WZERO3es WS011SH: from Tetsuko Komma (Geeklog Japan https://www.geeklog.jp/)
 https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/dmesg/hpcarm/WS011SH

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  http://togetter.com/li/1044981

NetBSD machines at KANSAI OPEN FORUM 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the KANSAI OPEN FORUM 2016 on Nov. 11-12 2016:

::

 http://k-of.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/453144668203052/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Booth:
  http://p.twipple.jp/cPXcp

BSD BOF
- NetBSD/dreamcast IDE HDD again (more update from OSC2016Tokyo/Fall) by tsutsui@
 https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/kof2016-netbsd-dreamcast-ide-hdd
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-dreamcast/2014/10/30/msg000265.html

 G1IDE-SCIsdmmc.diff:
 https://gist.github.com/tsutsui/57eb6c9d1c1bfc2cf7d99f98d14e1da0

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:

- SEGA DreamCast with CF and SD expansion  
   NetBSD Dreamcast 7.0 G1IDE+SCI SDMMC mplayer demo 
 mplayer on X11:
  http://p.twipple.jp/AqzlM  
 Twitter Timeline with pkgsrc/net/sayaka + pkgsrc/x11/mlterm:mlterm-fb
   http://p.twipple.jp/8WWtn

- Running NetBSD/x68k on XM6i with Raspberry PI3 NetBSD/earmv6hf
   http://p.twipple.jp/nCwQK

- Raspberry Pi2 Xfce4+omxplayer
    http://p.twipple.jp/Ls1Vk

- SHARP Netwalker (NetBSD/earmv7hf) + Xfce4 + mikutter
  http://p.twipple.jp/dBwjS

- DoComo SigmarionII NetBSD/hpcmips
  http://p.twipple.jp/ioyFG
  http://p.twipple.jp/FBqUn uvm_pglistallloc failed! 

- WZERO3 NetBSD/hpcarm
  https://twitter.com/tsutsuii/status/797002143911669760/photo/1

- stickers (NetBSD,mikutter,and various characters)
  http://p.twipple.jp/KKv5B

- Special Session: Implimentation of 4.4BSD luna68k by Akito Fujita
  http://p.twipple.jp/rOoH0

- Junk-Do book store NetBSD booth recomendation:
  https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/796927073793150976
-- UNIX Archeology by Akito Fujita
   http://honto.jp/netstore/pd-book_27798744.html
-- The Go Programming Language
   http://honto.jp/netstore/pd-book_27776918.html
-- NEW GAME! 4
   http://honto.jp/netstore/pd-book_27852889.html

Raspberry Pi running updated 2016-11-12-netbsd-raspi.img image:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/11/10/msg003958.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1047263
 
NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Fukuoka
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Fukuoka on Nov. 19 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-fukuoka/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/637124113105108/


Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/Hv9Gi
  
NetBSD Fukuoka travel guide:
 http://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016fukuoka.pdf
 https://github.com/ebijun/osc-demo
 http://p.twipple.jp/ejHvV

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:
- Running NetBSD/x68k on XM6i with Raspberry PI3 NetBSD/earmv6hf
  http://p.twipple.jp/1Dw6l

- Raspberry Pi2 Xfce4+omxplayer
  http://p.twipple.jp/Q0sX7

- SHARP Netwalker (NetBSD/earmv7hf) + Xfce4 + mikutter
  http://p.twipple.jp/oxMOS

- DoComo SigmarionII NetBSD/hpcmips
  NetBSD hpcmips 201611081750Z  multiuser boot 
           but panic with cpu_uarea_alloc: uvm_pglistalloc failed
             http://p.twipple.jp/fkiHh
  NetBSD hpcmips 201611210910Z  TLB miss : boot failed again
             http://p.twipple.jp/68Ey0

- WZERO3 NetBSD/hpcarm
  http://p.twipple.jp/oxMOS


Raspberry Pi running updated 2015-11-12-netbsd-raspi.img image:
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/11/10/msg003958.html
  45min Install tutorial: http://p.twipple.jp/FwwEr

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1050258
 
NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2016 Hiroshima
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group and XM6i Team members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2016 Hiroshima on Nov.27 2016:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-hiroshima/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/181902205545763/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Presentation:
 Twitter client on X68030(68030 25MHz/12MB) by isaki@
   http://www.pastel-flower.jp/~isaki/NetBSD/osc16hi/
  
PSG&PCM tunes on NetBSD/luna68k  by tsutsui@
   https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/osc2016-hiroshima-psg-tunes-on-netbsd-luna68k-again

Booth:
  http://p.twipple.jp/BD6sz 

NetBSD/luna68k 7.0.2 by tsutsui@
- https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/osc2016-kyoto-psg-tunes-on-netbsd-luna68k
- LUNA has Z80 sub-processor and YM2149 sound chip
- porting PSG Z80 sound driver for PC6001 to NetBSD/luna68k
  LUNA PSG support code http://twitter.com/tsutsuii/status/759793635898515456
  - play PC6001 music data on LUNA
  - play PCG voice data via LUNA Z80+PSG
 http://p.twipple.jp/BA9P6

NetBSD/x68k
1: X68030 (68030/25MHz,12MB)
 twitter client: pkgsrc/net/sayaka
 Use vala+mBedTLS to decode twitter handshake on x68k.
 http://p.twipple.jp/lmlx0

2: X68060 (68060/50MHz,128MB)
  http://p.twipple.jp/9EhgF

XM6i X68030 emulator http://xm6i.org/ by isaki@
1. NetBSD/x68k on MacOSX 
  http://p.twipple.jp/8BTqm
2. NetBSD/x68k on Raspberry 3 NetBSD/earmv7hf
  http://p.twipple.jp/s5ICg

 
NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2016hiroshima.pdf


Demo Images:
 RPI:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/11/23/msg003970.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1053125

Thanx for support NetBSD booth 2016:
 http://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/2016maps.pdf

and I hope you enjoy NetBSD Advent Calendar 2016:
 http://qiita.com/advent-calendar/2016/netbsd

NetBSD machines at BIG Raspberry JAM Tokyo 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the BIG Raspberry JAM Tokyo 2016 on Dec. 11 2016:

::

 https://raspberrypi.connpass.com/event/44902/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1873355159564632/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/ZFC3F

The booth exhibited the following machines:

@s_mitu
RaspberryPI on FreeBSD:
 https://github.com/s-mitu/RaspberryPi/blob/master/FreeBSD/Documents/FreeBSD_OSC.md

FreeBSD tank 32bit version:
 http://p.twipple.jp/os51a

FreeBSD 64bit dmesg:
 espeak can FreeBSD talk via USB audio.
 https://github.com/s-mitu/RaspberryPi/blob/master/FreeBSD/dmesg/rpi3-smp/dmesg.txt

RPI3+XM6i+
NetBSD/x68k on XM6i on NetBSD/earmv6hf on RPI3:
 http://p.twipple.jp/4sj2G

RPI2+omxplayer:
 http://p.twipple.jp/zsNZJ

NetWalker:
 http://p.twipple.jp/3TcXs 

WZERO3:
 http://p.twipple.jp/fEdKh

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/BIGRPI2016.pdf

Demo Images:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2016/12/10/msg004002.html
 https://github.com/ebijun/NetBSD/blob/master/Guide/RPI/RPIupdate2016.rst

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 http://togetter.com/li/1058231

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2017 Osaka
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2017 Osaka on Jan.28 2017:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-osaka/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1789923797907417/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Presentation:

PC6001 emulator PC6001VX on NetBSD + pkgsrc by tsutsui@
   https://speakerdeck.com/tsutsui/osc2017-osaka-pc-6001-emulator-on-netbsd-and-pkgsrc
   http://p.twipple.jp/Y1iJu

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/8ervd

PC6001 PSG Play demonstration
 http://ch.nicovideo.jp/tsutsui/blomaga/ar1165341

- NEC PC6001+PC6082:
  http://p.twipple.jp/uLJ8m
- PC6001VX NetBSD7/i386 pkgsrc/emulators/PC6001VX
  http://p.twipple.jp/EQtkl

XM6i X68030 emulator http://xm6i.org/ 
- NetBSD/x68k on RaspberryPI 3 NetBSD/earmv7hf
 http://p.twipple.jp/ca3kW

omxplayer+Xfce4 Raspberry PI2
 http://p.twipple.jp/i5qyW 

mikutter stickers:
 http://p.twipple.jp/dxIun
 
NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2017osaka.pdf


Demo Images:
RPI:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/01/25/msg004087.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 https://togetter.com/li/1075115

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2017 Hamanako
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2017 Hamanako on Feb. 12 2017:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-hamanako/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1440270795987946/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/pEmmh

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:
 - RaspberryPI 3 NetBSD/earmv6hf
   NetBSD/x68k on XM6i X68030 emulator http://xm6i.org/
   http://p.twipple.jp/nt0di
   http://p.twipple.jp/IFUjB

 - RaspberryPI 2 NetBSD/earmv6hf
   Xfce4 and crontab omxplayer video output to HDMI 
   http://p.twipple.jp/Mm9fB
   
 - Sharp W-ZERO3 NetBSD/hpcarm
   http://p.twipple.jp/NxRYO

 - Sharp NetWalker NetBSD/earmv7hf
   PC9801 Emulator
   pkgsrc/net/mikutter
   http://p.twipple.jp/kajdg
 
 - mikutter stickers:
   http://p.twipple.jp/2TBwo

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2017hamanako.pdf

Demo Images:
RPI:
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/02/10/msg004100.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
 https://togetter.com/li/1080372

NetBSD machines at AsiaBSDCon 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

BSD Research and Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the AsiaBSDCon 2017  on Mar. 10-13 2017:

::

 http://2017.asiabsdcon.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1718621151740857/
 https://www.bsdresearch.org/index.html.en
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Keynote K01: Software Stacks to enable Software-Defined Networking 
 and Network Functions Virtualization
Yoshihiro NAKAJIMA

NetBSD Related Talk&Event in AsiaBSDCon2017
- NetBSD Developer Summit (invited only)
  http://wiki.netbsd.org/summits/asiabsdcon_2017_netbsd_summit/
- NetBSD BoF
  http://wiki.netbsd.org/summits/AsiaBSDCon_2017_NetBSD_BoF/

- P01B: Bulk building in the many core era
Joerg Sonnenberger

- P02B: Addition of Ext4 Extent and Ext3 HTree DIR Read-Only Support
  in NetBSD
Hrishikesh

- P03B: Hardening pkgsrc
Pierre Pronchery

- P08B: Portable hotplugging: NetBSD's uvm hotplug(9) API development
Santhosh Narayanan Raju

- P10B: Holding onto things in a multiprocessor world
Taylor R Campbell

See http://www.netbsd.org/gallery/presentations/ for paper and slides.

Booth:
Japan NetBSD Users' Group +
Nagoya *BSD Users' Group +
Kansai *BSD User Group +
FreeBSD Workshop

OMRON Luna88K/OpenBSD: @ao_kenji
  https://www.slideshare.net/ao_kenji/
OMRON Luna68K/NetBSD: @nullnilaki
  http://nullnilaki.hatenablog.com/
Go animation demonstration on RPI2 NetBSD/earmv7hf by @oshmyja
 http://www.yagoto-urayama.jp/~oshimaya/netbsd/netbsd_goarm2.html

FreeBSD+Raspberry PI+GPIO/I2C demonstration by @s_mitu
 RPI3+GameController+English/Japanese speaking
 FreeBSD tank :RPI0
  https://github.com/s-mitu/RaspberryPi

Demonstration BoX: by @610t
  http://sacraya.610t.org/kbug/book/booth/singlehtml/
RetroBSD
Squeak+Gainer
RPI0 + RPI0 GPIO LED load average
Scratch x ESP8266 
Scratch x micro:bit
Coldfire+OpenGL
PocketCHIP with LiteBSD 
distcc : cluster
 RPI + FreeBSD
 RPI2 + NetBSD
 RPI + NetBSD
 BeagleBoneblackRaspBSD 

SHARP X68030 by msaitoh
NetWalker NetBSD/earmv7hf
ZAURUS SL-C750 NetBSD/zaurus
WZero3 NetBSD/hpcarm
NetBSD/x68k on XM6i on NetBSD/earmv6hf on RPI3 with X68000 beep case
RPI0
Buffelo LinkStation + NetBSD/sandpoint
OpenBlocks+ NetBSD/evbarm
SHARP W-ZERO3 WS004SH
CASIO CASSIOPEIA E-65
HITACHI PERSONA HPW-50PAD
Atmark Techno Armadillo-9
Plathome OpenBlockS 266
Cubieboard2, Allwinner A20 
OrangePi PC, Allwinner H3
Radxa Rock Pro, Rockchip RK3188 
Firefly, Rockchip RK3288

- AsiaBSDCon2017 Sticker by @nullnilaki 
  https://twitter.com/nullnilaki/status/834391718321545216

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/asiabsdcon2017.pdf

Demo Images:
 RPI:
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/03/08/msg004111.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  https://togetter.com/li/1084357

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2017 Tokyo/Spring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2017 Tokyo/Spring on Mar. 10-11 2017:

::

 https://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-spring/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1337061592993172/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/UshnU

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2017tokyospring.pdf

The NetBSD booth exhibited the following machines:

RPI3+XM6i+NetBSD/x68k:
 http://p.twipple.jp/JE8XI
 
RPI2+omxplayer:
 http://p.twipple.jp/N0pWY

NetWalker:
 http://p.twipple.jp/yqbXx

WZERO3:
 http://p.twipple.jp/w2wLg

GPDWIN:
 http://p.twipple.jp/QiXVi

BSD Cookies:
 http://p.twipple.jp/y1UZP

Demo Images:
   http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/03/08/msg004111.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  https://togetter.com/li/1089005

Continuing story: AsiaBSDCon2017 

Thanx NetBSD developers, I hope you enjoy OSC2017Tokyo/spring.
 http://p.twipple.jp/C6S7q

Thanx Nagoya *BSD Users' Group staff (Noda-san/Iwase-san),
 to support the booth.

OpenBSD and NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2017 Nagoya
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group and 
Nagoya *BSD Users' Group members held booth
at the Open Source Conference 2017 Nagoya on May 27 2017:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-nagoya/
 http://www.nagoya.bug.gr.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/638354339654922/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/

Booth:
 http://p.twipple.jp/q2ax3

OMRON LUNA88K on OpenBSD 6.1 by Kenji Aoyama.
  http://www.nk-home.net/~aoyama/OSC/OSC2017Nagoya-leaflet.pdf
  https://www.slideshare.net/ao_kenji/osc2017-nagoya-76418169

  Play PSG music on LUNA-88K - Utilization of I/O prosessor 
  - HD641780, Z80 compatible I/O processor (man 4 xp)
  - Play Music YM2149 with NEC PC6001 Z80 music driver.
  - CP/M on HD641780

PANIX: SVR4 on PC98 by Hiroyuki Nakaji
 http://www.slideshare.net/hiroyukinakaji/panix-on-pc98
 http://p.twipple.jp/h9A8m

SHARP NetWalker (NetBSD/earmv7hf) Xfce4.12+Firefox
 http://p.twipple.jp/0ymYm

Raspberry PI 
 NetBSD/x68k on XM6i on NetBSD/earmv6hf on RaspberryPI3
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/868267993771290624

@kapper1224's tons of tablets report
 https://www.slideshare.net/kapper1224/gpdwinwindows10linux2017

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2017nagoya.pdf


Demo Images:
 Luna88K :
  OpenBSD 6.1
 RPI:
  http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/05/24/msg004150.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  http://togetter.com/li/1114389

NetBSD machines at Open Source Conference 2017 Okinawa
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Japan NetBSD Users' Group members held booth 
at the Open Source Conference 2017 Okinawa 
  on Jun. 18 2017:

::

 http://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-okinawa/
 https://www.facebook.com/events/1821156841463423/
 https://www.facebook.com/NetBSD.jp/
 http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/

Booth:
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875951100846788608

NetBSD/x68k on XM6i on NetBSD/earmv6hf on RaspberryPI3
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875886892889235457
 http://xm6i.org/

NetBSD/earmv6hf RPI image on QEMU VEXPRESS A15 on NetBSD/i386
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875961401348546561
 
WZERO3 as NetBSD/hpcarm 
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875956372428406785

Testing RPI3,RPI2,RPI2-V1.2,RPI0
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875953797381537797
 http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/06/thread1.html#004185

Openblocks A6
 https://twitter.com/ebijun/status/875923622514221056

NetBSD Tourist Guide:
 https://www.soum.co.jp/~jun/OSC2017okinawa.pdf
 
NetBSD BoF: 45min
 https://twitter.com/kapper1224/status/875897698917928960

Demo Images:
 RPI:
   http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/06/12/msg004179.html
     ... RPI3 fixes
   http://mail-index.netbsd.org/port-arm/2017/06/20/msg004210.html

More pictures are available on Togetter page:
  https://togetter.com/li/1120958

NEXT:
 Japan NetBSD Users Group 19th annual Meeting and BoF 2017
  http://www.jp.NetBSD.org/
  http://www.jp.netbsd.org/ja/JP/JNUG/announce/meeting19.html
  https://www.facebook.com/events/266188503837926/

TUNE IN NEXT NetBSD,Same NetBSD-time,Same NetBSD-channel.
 thanx to Adam West as batman, and Nicolas Joly as njoly@.
 may rest in peace.

and respects.
---
Jun Ebihara
