.. 
 Copyright (c) 2013 Jun Ebihara All rights reserved.
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


.. netbsd MLを掘る
.. 拡張ボードの見分け方
.. XM6i


X68
--------------------

NetBSD/i386でXM6iを動かしてみる。
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NetBSD/i386を用意し、その上でXM6iを動かしてみます。

必要なパッケージのインストール
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
XM6iを動かすために必要なパッケージをインストールしておきます。

::

 # cd /usr/pkgsrc/x11/wxGTK28
 # make package-install

XM6iのダウンロード
""""""""""""""""""""""
 NetBSD/i386用XM6iを以下のディレクトリからダウンロードして、展開します。

::

 # mkdir -p /usr/local/XM6i
 # cd /usr/local/XM6i
 # ftp http://xm6i.org/archive/XM6i-0.42-netbsd6.1-i386-2013Q1.tar.gz 
 # tar xzvf XM6i-0.42-netbsd6.1-i386-2013Q1.tar.gz 

#. XM6i


.. csv-table:: 
 :widths: 7 3 60

 1998/2/18,椿 ,Initial import of NetBSD/news　[17]_
 1998/3/4,椿, This is to facilitate an eventual NetBSD/news68k. [19]_
 1998/3/4,椿, Rename NetBSD/news to NetBSD/newsmips.  [18]_
 1998/12/1?,椿,NetBSD/newsmips 移植ページ [16]_
 1999/5/6, , 筒井さんがNEWS入手




脚注
""""""""

.. rubic:: 

.. [1] 歴史的コンピュータとソフトウェアプロジェクトに関する昔話(社外公開版) http://katsu.watanabe.name/doc/comphist/
